---
title: Thoughts & Certs..
published: true
---

# [](#header-1)Offensive Security Certified Professional

So OSCP.... the flagship certification from [Offensive Security](https://www.offensive-security.com/pwk-oscp/). The cert that 'gets you through the HR door' the end-game... right ? WRONG!
I've read so many blogs and posts about people taking and passing their OSCP exam to then reach for the skies and scream 'I'VE FINALLY MADE IT' But have they actually? And is it the right cert to get ? Lets find out...  

***  

Firstly lets clear the air, I'm from the UK, and the OSCP is recognised pretty much world wide but does that mean that as a newcomer to industry looking for a job its the first thing to go for ? While the OSCP to some is not considered as a 'Beginner' level cert it does seem to be the minimum or at least in the list of 'Required Skills' for Pentest jobs... Here lets look at a few:  

### [](#header-3)Junior Penetration Tester Roles
    Job #1 ~ Penetration Testing Certifications such as: CREST, TIGER Scheme, or OSCP
    Job #2 ~ Current CREST / CHECK Registered Tester (AND/OR) OSCP or GIAC GPEN Accreditation.
    Job #3 ~ Qualifications are CREST Registered Tester, Tiger Scheme or OSCP certification.

Now theres a few examples pasted straight out of jobs available as of the date of this post. And i didn't look hard, a quick Google search will bring you up a nice selection
of jobs currently available. Najority of the jobs require some sort of experience, OSCP - Which we are embracing as our 'foot in the door' cert....and this other thing, CREST/CHECK??????? Say what ? All everyone talks about is OSCP so what even is this CREST, Well if your living in the UK it looks like your going to need it so lets take a look at this then...

***   


### [](#header-3)CREST-CHECK-TIGER(?)
"[CREST](https://www.crest-approved.org/) is an international not-for-profit accreditation and certification body that represents and supports the technical information security market"  
So after browsing this site one thing is instantly clear - You're going to want to be CREST certified to work in the UK Cybers industry. Its one of the most recognised 
certs out there and regardless of specific role in the field its applicable to all. So why do they want it ?? Well its an industry standard, It means that when a compmany employs you (or your org) on a pentest your using the latest methodology and techniques while being safe during testing.  

"[CHECK](https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/information/check-penetration-testing) is the scheme under which NCSC approved companies can conduct authorised penetration tests of public sector and CNI systems and networks."  
So heres another one you will probably come across - CHECK. From the National Cybser Security Centre (NCSC) is designed for Critical National Infrastructure (CNI) (power stations, airports, electricity stations etc...) So your company will fall under the NCSC standards and has been approved and vetted by them. which means you probably will too. More info on CHECK and the minimum requirements for an org can be found [Here](https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/information/become-a-check-provider).  

"[Tiger Scheme](https://www.tigerscheme.org/qualifications.php) is run and managed by the University of South Wales Commercial Services Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of the University of South Wales."  
Ok so this one is entirely new to me, I've heard of CREST & CHECK but Tiger?. From what i can tell its very similar to CREST and has the same tech requirements of the CHECK scheme.. So correct me if im wrong  (and please do! [@Twitter](https://twitter.com/KhaosShield)) but if you pass the TIGER testing then the NCSC will also give you the CHECK status also.... seems worth it but i'd advise you do some research into this as im going to as well!.  

***



Now thats just a few certs covered and of course there are more... lots more, depending on your chosen route you may need a Payment Card Industry cert to work within that field. So lets do a quick roundup. Certs are plenty and available to everyone who needs them but make sure your getting what you 'need' and not just blowing cash into the wind on a 'nice to have' but perhaps irrelevant cert. Research! look into the career path your choosing, Ask the community, Find out the best certs and the most relevant... heres a list mostly for myself (in no particular order) but may steer you in the right direction:  

* OSCP
* CREST
* CHECK
* TIGER
* CEH
* eJPT / ePPT
* CompTIA Pentest+  

Now theres a few in there that we didnt cover but dont worry we will do. Specifically im going to look into the eJPT cert as recently it has come highly recommended by a few people (John Hammond, The Cyber Mentor, Hyd3 etc..) and we can take a dive into e-learn security and see if its the right one for us..me..them. Anyway thats the end of this absolutely random blog post. Keep Hacking.

***

